# EEData Pipeline

## Overview

Project EEData constructs an end-to-end data pipeline that provides intelligible data storage, generates synthetic datasets, seamlessly retrieves queries, and creates a predictive model for comprehensive analysis. By leveraging synthetic data, the predictive model can be trained and tested within a controlled environment.

## Directories

This repository consists of the following directories:

* [data/](data/): Houses the generated datasets for the database and the predictive model.

* [docs/](docs/): Contains a clear-cut report of the model's performance and a vivid explanation of the database architecture.

* [jupyter/](jupyter/): Includes a Jupyter Notebook for predictive analysis and data visualization.

* [python/](python/): Comprises a synthetic dataset generator and the predictive model.

* [sql/](sql/): Encompasses the schema of the database, queries for analysis, and the database.

## Requirements

The Python libraries required for this project can be found in the `requirements.txt` file. Installation can be done with the package manager pip.

```sh
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

## Usage

### Essential

#### Predictive Model Training

The predictive model can be trained via the Python file or a Jupyter Notebook for selective cell execution.

* Run the Python file:

    ```sh
    cd python
    python logistic_regression_model.py
    ```

* Launch a Jupyter Notebook:

    ```sh
    cd jupyter
    jupyter notebook logistic_regression_jnb.ipynb
    ```

### Optional

The optional steps include querying, generating, and importing data. The data generation and importing steps will regenerate and reload synthetic data back into the database.

#### Querying

* Queries can be run on the database by:

    ```sh
    cd sql
    sqlite3 eedata.db
    sqlite> .read queries.sql
    ```

#### Data Generation and Importing

1. Tables for the database can be re-established by:

    ```sh
    cd sql
    sqlite3 eedata.db
    sqlite> .read schema.sql
    ```

2. Synthetic data can be regenerated by:

    ```sh
    cd python
    python synthetic_dataset_generator.py
    ```

3. Data can be reloaded into the database by:

    ```sh
    cd sql
    sqlite3 eedata.db
    sqlite> .import --csv --skip 1 carts.csv carts
    sqlite> .import --csv --skip 1 items.csv items
    sqlite> .import --csv --skip 1 orders.csv orders
    sqlite> .import --csv --skip 1 returns.csv returns
    sqlite> .import --csv --skip 1 users.csv users
    ```

## Technologies

This project is created with:

* SQLite 3.48.0
* Python 3.12.5
* Jupyter Notebook 7.2.2
